Of course.
You sell fish.
No, not me, sir.
In that case I wish you were as good a man as a fish seller.
Good, sir?
Yes, sir.
Only one man in ten thousand is good in this world.
That’s definitely true, my lord.
Since if the sun breeds maggots on a dead dog, kissing the corpse—by the way, do you have a daughter?
I do indeed, my lord.
Then by all means never let her walk in public.
Procreation is a good thing, but if your daughter gets pregnant … look out, friend.
A lot of words.
And what is the subject?
Between whom?
I mean, what do the words say?
Oh, just lies, sir.
Into my grave.
Well, that’s certainly out of this world, all right.
You can’t take anything from me that I care less about—except my life, except my life, except my life.
Good-bye, my lord.
You’re looking for Lord Hamlet.
He’s right over there.
Thank you, sir.
My lord!
My dear sir!
Ah, my good old friends!
How are you, Guildenstern?
And Rosencrantz!
Boys, how are you both doing?
Happy that we’re not too happy, lucky in being not too lucky.
But you’re not down and out, either, are you?
So you’re around Lady Luck’s waist?
Yes, we’re the privates in her army.
Anyway, what’s up?
But you’re wrong.
Let me ask you a particular question.
What crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison?
Prison, my lord?
Denmark’s a prison.
Then I guess the whole world is one.
Yes, quite a large one, with many cells and dungeons, Denmark being one of the worst.
We don’t think so, my lord.
Well, then it isn’t one to you, since nothing is really good or bad in itself—it’s all what a person thinks about it.
And to me, Denmark is a prison.
That must be because you’re so ambitious.
It’s too small for your large mind.
Dreams are a sign of ambition, since ambition is nothing more than the shadow of a dream.
But a dream itself is just a shadow.
In fact, I consider ambition to be so light and airy that it’s only the shadow of a shadow.
Then I guess beggars are the ones with bodies, while ambitious kings and heroes are just the shadows of beggars.
Should we go inside?
Well, then, I thank you, though I’m such a beggar that even my thanks are not worth much.
Or was it just your whim, on your own initiative?
What should we say, my lord?
You were sent for.
I know the king and queen sent for you.
Why would they do that, my lord?
That’s what I want you to tell me.
My lord, we were sent for.
Is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day?
Who can explain this to me?
I can.
Or at least I can describe the rumors.
So why did you laugh when I said that men don’t interest me?
The one who plays the part of the king will be particularly welcome.
The adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield, the lover will be rewarded for his sighs, the crazy character can rant all he wants, the clown will make everybody laugh, and the lady character can say whatever’s on her mind, or I’ll stop the play.
Which troupe is it?
The tragic actors from the city, the ones you used to enjoy so much.
What are they doing on the road?
They made more money and got more attention in the city.
But things have changed there, and it’s easier for them on the road now.
Are they as popular as they used to be when I lived in the city?
Do they attract big audiences?
No, not like before.
Why?
Are they getting rusty?
No, they’re busy and as excellent as ever.
The problem is that they have to compete with a group of children who yell out their lines and receive outrageous applause for it.
These child actors are now in fashion, and they’ve so overtaken the public theaters that society types hardly come at all, they’re so afraid of being mocked by the playwrights who write for the boys.
What, you mean kid actors?
Who takes care of them?
Who pays their way?
Will they stop working when their voices mature?
Aren’t the playwrights hurting them by making them upstage adult actors, which they are going to grow up and become?
There’s been a whole debate on the topic.
For a while, no play was sold to the theaters without a big fight between the children’s playwright and the actors playing adult roles.
Are you kidding?
Oh, there’s been a lot of quarreling.
And the boys are winning so far?
Actually, it’s not so unusual when you think about it.
My uncle is king of Denmark, and the same people who made fun of him while my father was still alive are now rushing to pay twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for miniature portraits of him.
There’s something downright unnatural about it, if a philosopher stopped to think about it.
The actors are here.
Gentlemen, welcome to Elsinore.
Don’t be shy—shake hands with me.
And if we don’t shake hands, when I act all nice to the players it will seem like I’m happier to see them than you.
You are very welcome here.
But still, my uncle-father and aunt-mother have got the wrong idea.
In what sense, my lord?