Excellent well.
You are a fishmonger.
Not I, my lord.
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Honest, my lord?
Ay, sir.
To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of ten thousand.
That’s very true, my lord.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a good kissing carrion— Have you a daughter?
I have, my lord.
Let her not walk i' th' sun.
Conception is a blessing, but, as your daughter may conceive—Friend, look to ’t.
Words, words, words.
What is the matter, my lord?
Between who?
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Slanders, sir.
Into my grave.
Indeed, that is out of the air.
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will more willingly part withal—except my life, except my life, except my life.
Fare you well, my lord.
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet.
There he is.
God save you, sir!
My honored lord!
My most dear lord!
My excellent good friends!
How dost thou, Guildenstern?
Ah, Rosencrantz!
Good lads, how do you both?
Happy, in that we are not overhappy.
On Fortune’s cap we are not the very button.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favors?
Faith, her privates we.
What news?
But your news is not true.
Let me question more in particular.
What have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison hither?
Prison, my lord?
Denmark’s a prison.
Then is the world one.
A goodly one, in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
We think not so, my lord.
Why, then, ’tis none to you, for there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
To me it is a prison.
Why then, your ambition makes it one.
Tis too narrow for your mind.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
A dream itself is but a shadow.
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow’s shadow.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows.
Shall we to th' court?
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.
Is it your own inclining?
What should we say, my lord?
You were sent for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color.
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
To what end, my lord?
That you must teach me.
My lord, we were sent for.
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste Doth make the night joint laborer with the day?
Who is ’t that can inform me?
That can I.
I will tell you why.
Why did you laugh then, when I said “man delights not me”?
He that plays the king shall be welcome.
The adventurous knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt for ’t.
What players are they?
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the tragedians of the city.
How chances it they travel?
Their residence, both in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation.
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city?
Are they so followed?
No, indeed are they not.
How comes it?
Do they grow rusty?
Nay, their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace.
But there is, sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for ’t.
These are now the fashion, and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither.
What, are they children?
Who maintains 'em?
How are they escoted?
Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing?
Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like if their means are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession?
Faith, there has been much to do on both sides, and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy.
There was, for a while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question.
Is ’t possible?
Oh, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Do the boys carry it away?
It is not very strange.
For my uncle is King of Denmark, and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little.
Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if philosophy could find it out.
There are the players.
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore.
Your hands, come then.
Let me comply with you in this garb—lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you, must show fairly outwards, should more appear like entertainment than yours.
You are welcome.
But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
In what, my dear lord?